- [Instructor] Continuous integration
and continuous deployment,
are important practices related to GitOps.
However, with GitOps,
they may look a little bit different
than you accustom to.
A common pattern used by organizations,
as part of their DevOps practices,
is referred to as CIOps.
Let's take a closer look at this pattern.
Then we'll compare how GitOps changes the approach.
It starts when a change is made
to the application source code in the repository.
This triggers the build system.
Next, the CI pipeline builds the software,
executes test against it,
and then packages it into a container image
that's stored within a container registry.
Once the CI pipeline finishes its work,
it triggers the CD pipeline,
which has permissions to make calls
directly against the Kubernetes API.
This is where the security concern
comes into play with this approach.
We'll talk about that in a second.
Once the cluster state is updated in SCD,
the cluster begins to materialize the desired state
by pulling the image and deploying it across the nodes.
Here's where you cross your fingers
and hope everything goes well
because it's difficult to recover from a bad deployment
when using this pattern.
Okay, let's take a look back
and see the downsides of this approach.
First there's little separation between CI and CD.
They might even be the same tool.
It's like you're forcing your CI tool
to handle continuous delivery.
Something it wasn't meant to do.
And that's where the problems start to creep in.
The CI tool needs privileges to make calls
directly against the Kubernetes management API
to perform the deployments.
This approach is not secure.
It violates a trust boundary,
and it allows an attacker
to use a compromised pipeline
to execute malicious code.
It's also not very stable.
If a deployment thrashes,
this approach can lead the cluster in a bad state
that we're not even aware of.
These issues make CIOps
a poor choice for managing multiple clusters
or large clusters.
So, let's shift back to GitOps
and talk about how it approaches automated pipelines
In the GitOps model, continuous integration
and continuous delivery
are decoupled into separate concerns.
The CI pipeline is left intact.
However, the CD pipeline is shifted inside the cluster
where an operator is responsible
for automating deployment of changes into the cluster
to ensure it matches the desired state found in Git.
This alleviates the security concerns
associated with the traditional push model
that's used by CIC/CD.
It also provides recoverability
because the cluster can easily be rebuilt.
Let's dive back into an architecture diagram
to get a visual of what's going on.
GitOps largely leaves the CI pipeline intact
except for removing the trigger to the CD pipeline.
Under GitOps, the sole responsibility of CI
is to produce an artifact.
In this case, it's a container image
that's placed within our artifact repository.
Here's where the operator in the cluster takes over.
It monitors the desired state in Git for any changes
which are typically made
to a separate environment repo using a poll request.
So, this could be something like an update
to a Kubernetes deployment
where we point to the new image
created by the CI pipeline.
Once a change is detected,
it reads the specs for the Kubernetes objects
and then uses the control plane
to provide the new state of the cluster.
This causes the cluster to pull the new image
and it deploys it across the worker nodes.
So within this diagram,
you see not only how GitOps adapts traditional CI/CD,
but you get an entire overview of using GitOps
as an operational model
for a cloud native application
deployed on Kubernetes.